.TH UCF.CONF 5 "Dec 31 2024" Debian "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
ucf.conf \- site\-wide configuration file for
.B ucf
.SH SYNOPSIS
.I /etc/ucf.conf
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I /etc/ucf.conf
is a
.B POSIX Shell
snippet sourced by
.BR ucf (1)
and
.BR ucfr (1).
It can contain any shell directive
(just ensure you know what you are doing).
.PP
All the variables have reasonable default values,
but they be overridden on a site\-wide or per\-run basis.
.TP 3
a)
Some variables can be set in the config file
.IR /etc/ucf.conf .
These values override the defaults.
.IP b)
Some variables can also be set by setting a corresponding environment
variable.
These values take precedence over the config file.
.SH Configuration File options
At the moment,
the user modifiable variables supported are:
.TP 18
.B DEBUG
Debugging information:
The default value is 0
(no debugging information is printed).
To enable debugging output,
set the value to
1.
.TP
.B VERBOSE
Verbosity:
The default value is 0 (quiet).
To change the default behavior,
set the value to 1.
.TP
.B conf_force_conffold
Force the installed file to be retained.
The default is to have this variable unset,
which makes the script ask in case of doubt.
This can also be overridden by the environment variable
.B UCF_FORCE_CONFFOLD
.TP
.B conf_force_conffnew
Force the installed file to be overwritten.
The default is to have this variable unset,
which makes the script ask in case of doubt.
This can also be overridden by the environment variable
.B UCF_FORCE_CONFFNEW
.TP
.B conf_source_dir
This is the directory where the historical md5sums for a file are
looked for.
Specifically,
the historical md5sums are looked for in either the file
.IR ${filename}.md5sum ,
or the subdirectory
.I ${filename}.md5sum.d/
.TP
.B conf_old_mdsum_file
Force the historical md5sums to be read from this file,
rather than defaulting to living in the source directory.
Setting this option overrides settings in the environment variable
.B UCF_OLD_MDSUM_FILE
.SH Files
System\-wide defaults are placed in
.IR /etc/ucf.conf ,
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ucf (1), ucfr (1)
.SH BUGS
There are no bugs.
Any resemblance thereof is delirium.
Really.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Manoj Srivastava <srivasta@debian.org>,
for the Debian GNU/Linux system.

